---
layout: spec
category : apps
tags : ['bill', lobbyists', 'united states government']
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Developed while watching Netflix documentary "Park Avenue: Money, Power and the American Dream" 2012

It appears evident that the US government does not work as the 70's cartoon character, Bill, would have you think.

Corporations, through the tool used by lobbyists (campaign donations) buy the direction of our great nation in ways evidenced by the manifestation of all the shit in our planet and the correlative, progressive worsening of other aspects of our society.

This bill serves hereunto for the purpose of implementing a grand transparent design of the above processes.

In this way, we will better understand at a higher level of intelligence, the patterns of destruction such that we can have constructive, forward-moving progress in their adjustment towards a better future.


{% highlight ruby %}
describe Lobbyist do
  it "influences politicians" do
    politician.lobbied_by(lobbyist).should_cause politicion.to_be :influenced
  end
end
{% endhighlight %}


{% highlight gherkin %}
Given that I am a lobbyist
When I lobby a politician
And I succeeded in lobbying the politican
Then I get a bigger payout
{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight gherkin %}
Given that I am a
{% endhighlight %}

Presidents are politicans.

They talk to the powerful people to get more money. We must make all this so much less tedious and easier to do with technology (apps/mobile/web) that it becomes more transparent and well known.

It must be a game in order that the players, my fellow Americans, become more aware of the comedic nature of this bold-faced lie we thought of government -- when we learned of this land we were born into, America, as children.